Welcome to PermissionsEx's documentation section. These documents are for the 2.0 version of PEX that is currently in development for Sponge and Spigot 1.8+, NOT the 1.x version which functions quite differently.

Keep in mind this documentation is still a work in progress, so some links may be broken and some sections may not be fully fleshed out. If anything is unclear or there are opportuntities for improvement (*besides* being incomplete), feel free to [open an issue] about it and we'll take a look at it.

**Just getting started?** Take a look at the [Getting Started] guide.

**Upgrading from 1.x?** Take a look at the [changes made in 2.0](Changes-In-2.0.md), and look at the [command equivalency](Command-Equivalency.md) to see what the new commands are for operations you've done in the past.

**Want to go more in-depth?** Take a look at these topic-specific guides that will explain features of PEX in more detail.

- **[Subjects]**: The core of it all, Subjects are the basic things that can have data assigned. Every user, group, or other object in the permissions system is a Subject.
- **[Rank Ladders]**: Separate from data inheritance, rank ladders are used only with promotion and demotion operations.
- **[Context Inheritance]**: Want to set data for one context and have it apply to others, for example setting permissions on one world but having those permissions apply to another world? Context inheritance can do this.
- **[Backends]**: By default, PEX stores data in a H2 database. However, other options are available to store data differently, or even store some data in one place and the rest in another.


[open an issue]: /PEXPlugins/PermissionsEx/issues
[Getting Started]: Tutorial.md
[Subjects]: Subject.md

